This is a good start for people who are just beginning with [[personal-finance]]. You don't need to start with an elaborate budget with a myriad of expense categories. Nor do you need expensive budgeting apps to get you started.

What you need is to follow a simple rule of three numbers: 50-30-20.

What do they stand for? Those numbers tell you how to--in some approximation, of course--allocate your after-tax income.

50% should go on your *needs*. That includes expenses such as:
- Housing
- Groceries
- [[health]]
- Utilities

The essentials. Things you *need* for living and nothing extra.

The next 30% should go on *wants*. Here's the place for extras. This may include expenses such as:
- Shopping
- Dining out
- Gifts
- Hobbies
- Entertainment 

We don't necessarily *need* those to stay alive, but they make living more pleasant. Those are the [[lifestyle-expenses]], things that increase your quality of life. They're important and you should find a place for them in your [[personal-budget]]. Unless you're in financial dire straits, but that's another story.

Lastly, 20% of your income should be meant for [[savings]]. Put this portion away and direct it to your:
- [[emergency-fund]]
- [[investments]] (preferably [[etf]])
- Paying off your [[credit-card]] and [[debt]]
- Retirement fund

It's really simple and easy to start. With only three categories to track, you really have no excuses left.

And remember, [[spend-less-than-you-make]]. 50% + 30% + 20% = 100%. Not 120%, not 150%, not 200%.

## Meta
Creation date: 2020-08-24 21:53

### Links


### References
[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[personal-finance]: personal-finance "personal-finance"
[spend-less-than-you-make]: spend-less-than-you-make "spend-less-than-you-make"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"